imagine you could fly now
imagine giving that up
why would you ever do that
hi guys Lissette here for dnews
ostriches and emus Kiwis
penguins one thing all these
words have in common is that
they can't fly an online bird
feels like an oxymoron but maybe
the most surprising thing about
these creatures is that they all
once flew they all evolved not
to fly at one point signs of
thought that maybe some of the
birds living today evolved from
flightless ancestors
more specifically they thought
this about the ratites a diverse
group of large flightless avians
which includes ostriches emus
and Louis
this hasn't been proven wrong
thanks to DNA studies we now
know that all of today's
flightless birds came from
ancestors that flew but they all
independently evolved to lose
their ability to fly and they
did this all around the world
penguins in Antarctica steamer
ducks in South America emus in
Australia Kiwis in New Zealand
and ostriches in Africa
it's astounding to think that
given such different
environments all these very bird
populations would go through the
same type of evolution or
convergent evolution to be exact
but why would the evolution of
flight loss happen over and over
again
well two possible explanations
largely influenced by Darwinian
Theory are that changes in the
environment either decrease
pressure for flying or increased
pressure to develop another
trait
this means that nature slowly
selected for certain traits over
others and along the way took
away some birds ability to fly
to illustrate how increased
environmental pressures for
traits other than flying work in
practice
let's dive into the
biomechanical explanation in a
study published in the
proceedings of the national
academy of sciences research
study different types of flying
and wing propelled diving sea
birds by analyzing energy costs
and morphology they found that
as a bird's functional ability
to be a good diver increases its
ability to fly decreases
eventually to a point where
flying ceases to be possible
a larger body and short wings
may help seabirds dive and swim
better and thereby help them get
more food for example but this
body type makes taking
off more difficult in other
words penguins may have lost
their ability to fly because
involving to be better swimmers
provided a greater advantage
than flying and the two
abilities required a trade-off
you can't be both a great flier
and swimmer so the environment
puts pressure on birds to evolve
certain abilities at the expense
of others but a lack of
environmental pressures can also
lead to change if the
environment doesn't strongly
require bird to fly the bird may
lose this ability over time for
example in a study published in
the journal evolution
researchers argue that steamer
ducks eventually lost their
ability to fly in part because
their South American coastal
environment is suitable to live
in year-round the birds didn't
have a need to migrate and thus
had little selective pressure to
fly another example of
diminished selective pressures
is when the dinosaurs went
extinct during this period birds
were left without predators so
without the need to fly away
from hungry t-rex's the birds
evolved other qualities the
ostrich for example became huge
and better suited for running
rather than flying
this lack of predation in the
environment helps explain why so
many flightless birds are found
on islands that were isolated
for extended periods of time
why use of energy to fly when
you can just strut around now
these changes happen slowly over
time through natural selection
but I'd be remiss if I didn't
also mention that you and I and
all humans are also making birds
flightless and very quickly
through artificial selection our
turkeys and chickens would look
very different if we were
breeding them to be large and
needy for our consumption so big
that they can no longer fly like
their ancestors once did
still while we certainly have a
hand in their flight lessness
today's flightless birds have
naturally evolved to be this way
which in some cases might be
good because could you imagine
how terrifying a flying ostrich
would be on a kinda related note
evolutionary change doesn't just
affect living creatures it also
affects the technology we use
every day to find out how much
dating technology has evolved
since before the internet
check out this video from our
friends over at seeker stories
Stephen sherry met back in
nineteen seven
he threw a video dating service
called great expectations
they've been married for 37
years I happened to see over the
shoulder of some guy was
watching that videotape this
really pretty girl and she was
the right age right everything
what raid would you be thrilled
to evolve or evolved out of let
us know in the comments below
and remember to subscribe so you
never miss an episode of dnews
thanks guys